---
title: "Creating Library"
date: 2019-07-15 18:05:00 +0900
comments: true
categories: angular
tags: [library, package]
---

## This Document Has Been Updated

[Go Directly to the Updated Article](https://ksrae.github.io/angular/creating-library-revised/)

Leverage self-developed libraries within your Angular projects as if they were external dependencies.

Since Angular 6, `ng-packagr` has been officially supported, facilitating easy library creation. We recommend encapsulating frequently used functionalities into reusable, packageable libraries. This approach promotes code reuse and accelerates development workflows.

## Library Generation

Utilize the Angular CLI to generate the library. Note that this process must occur within an existing Angular project. First, create a new project using `ng new`, and then execute the subsequent command to generate your library.

```bash
ng generate library [library-name]
```

This command creates a folder named `library-name` within the `projects` directory at the root of your Angular project.

## Project Analysis

Examine the generated files to verify the integrity and structure of your newly created library.

### Analyzing `angular.json`

Search for your project name within `angular.json`. The corresponding configuration block should have `"projectType": "library"`. This configuration confirms that the project is correctly identified as a library.

```json
"my-lib": {
  "projectType": "library",
  "root": "projects/my-lib",
  "sourceRoot": "projects/my-lib/src",
  "prefix": "lib",
  "architect": {
    "build": {
      "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-ng-packagr:build",
      "options": {
        "tsConfig": "projects/my-lib/tsconfig.lib.json",
        "project": "projects/my-lib/ng-package.json"
      }
    },
```

### Analyzing `package.json`

Verify the presence of `ng-packagr` as a dependency within the library's `package.json` file. This confirms that the required packaging tool is correctly configured.

### Analyzing `tsconfig.json`

Determine the output location of your library's build artifacts by inspecting the `paths` configuration in `tsconfig.json`.

```json
"paths": {
  "my-lib": [
    "dist/my-lib"
  ],
```

### Understanding File Roles

> `<package.json>`
> 

>

> - Enables distribution as an npm package.
> 

> `<public_api.ts>`
> 

>

> - Serves as the entry file. It must include all files intended for export.
- Even if exports are declared in a module, they must also be explicitly declared here.
> 

> `<ng-package.json>`
> 

>

> - Configuration file for `ng-packagr`. Automatically generated by Angular CLI.
> 

## Library Implementation

Declare and export all components and other necessary files within your library.

### Module Definition

```tsx
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { MyLibComponent } from './my-lib.component';
import { FooComponent } from './foo/foo.component';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
  ],
  declarations: [
    MyLibComponent,
    FooComponent
  ],
  exports: [
    MyLibComponent,
    FooComponent
  ]
})
export class MyLibModule { }
```

### Public API Definition (`public_api.ts`)

Specify the module and all exported file names from that module within `public_api.ts`. This ensures that the library exposes the intended components and services.

```tsx
export * from './lib/my-lib.service';
export * from './lib/my-lib.component';
export * from './lib/my-lib.module';
```

## Library Building

Build the library using `ng build`, similar to building a standard Angular project.

```bash
ng build my-lib
```

Upon successful execution, a `dist/my-lib` folder will be created, containing the compiled library files.

## Package Generation

Navigate to the `dist/my-lib` directory and execute the `package` command to create the distributable package.

```bash
cd dist/my-lib
```

### Public Package Creation

Create a public package using `npm publish`.

```bash
npm publish
```

If you are not logged into npm, a 401 error will occur.

The `npm link` command can be used to avoid reinstalling the library every time it is built during development.

#### Common Public Error

```
npm ERR! code E401
npm ERR! 401 Unauthorized - PUT https://registry.npmjs.org/my-lib - You must be logged in to publish packages.

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
```

### Private Package Creation

If you prefer a private package, use the `npm pack` command. This operates similarly to `npm publish` but does not require login and generates a `.tgz` file.

```
> npm pack

npm notice
npm notice package: my-lib@0.0.1
npm notice === Tarball Contents ===
npm notice 1.4kB esm2015/lib/my-lib.component.js
-- omitted --
npm notice 60B   lib/my-lib.service.d.ts
npm notice 118B  public-api.d.ts
npm notice === Tarball Details ===
npm notice name:          my-lib
npm notice version:       0.0.1
npm notice filename:      my-lib-0.0.1.tgz
-- omitted --
npm notice total files:   26
npm notice
my-lib-0.0.1.tgz
```

### Automating Package Generation in `package.json`

For streamlined build and packaging, create scripts in `package.json`.

```json
"scripts": {
  "build_lib": "ng build --prod my-lib",
  "npm_pack": "cd dist/my-lib && npm pack",
  "package": "npm run build_lib && npm run npm_pack"
},
```

Now, executing `npm package` will build and package the library in one step, generating a `.tgz` file.

## Integration

To use the created library, install the package in the target project. For public packages, proceed as with any npm library. For private packages, first transfer the `.tgz` file to the project.

After transferring the file, install the `.tgz` file as you would a public package.

```bash
npm install ./my-lib
```

Verify that the module is installed in the `node_modules` folder.

## Usage

The library can now be used in the project.

```tsx
// app.module.ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { MyLibModule } from 'my-lib';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
  ],
  declarations: [
    MyLibModule
  ],
  exports: [

  ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

## Important Considerations

You cannot create a library project within an existing application project. It must be created as a separate project.

As of angular-cli v6.0.3, the following issues exist. These may be improved or changed depending on the version, so please keep this in mind.

- Assets are not included when building the library. The asset folder must be copied manually.
- Until this is resolved, copy the library's assets to each project.
- If the library uses scripts, they may not be applied. You must add the script code to the `angular.json` file of each project and execute it.

## Reference Sites

- [Creating a Library in Angular 6 – Angular In Depth](https://blog.angularindepth.com/creating-a-library-in-angular-6-87799552e7e5)
- [Creating Libraries](https://angular.io/guide/creating-libraries)